In this section,
I'll be talking about Packaging and Deploying.
I will cover Helm in this section,
which has gained in importance enormously
in the last Kubernetes releases.
Let's start with an introduction to Helm.
Helm is the best way to find, share,
and use software built for Kubernetes.
This is the official definition from helm.sh.
Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes.
It helps you to manage Kubernetes applications.
Helm is maintained by the CNCF,
the Cloud Native Computing Foundation,
together with software like Kubernetes,
Fluentd, Linkerd, and others.
It is now maintained in collaboration with Microsoft,
Google, Bitnami, and the Helm contributor community.
To start using Helm,
you first need to download the Helm client.
You need to run helm init to initialize Helm
on your Kubernetes cluster.
This will install something that's called Tiller.
Also, if you have RBAC installed
and recent clusters have it enabled now by default,
you will also need to add a ServiceAccount and RBAC rules.
And that's what I'm going to show you in a demo.
I have the ServiceAccount prepared
and then I will initialize Helm
and then you will see that it will install Tiller
using this ServiceAccount.
After this, Helm is ready for use
and you can start installing charts.
Helm uses a packaging format called charts.
A chart is a collection of files that describe
a set of Kubernetes resources.
Think about YAML files.
A single chart can deploy an app,
a piece of software, or a database.
It can have dependencies.
For example, to install the Wordpress chart,
you will need the MySQL chart.
So, the Wordpress chart will depends on the MySQL chart.
You can also write your own chart
to deploy your application on Kubernetes using Helm.
Charts use templates that are typically developed
by a package maintainer.
They will generate YAML files that Kubernetes understands.
You can think of templates as dynamic YAML files,
which can contain logic and variables.
This is an example of a template within a chart.
Here you can see we have a ConfigMap.
In the ConfigMap, we have metadata defined
and then we would use a variables.
In this short example, we are using
the Release.Name variable to name the ConfigMap
and we also have some data in this ConfigMap.
And for drink we defined Values.favoriteDrink.
And the favoriteDrink value can then be overridden
by the user when running helm install.
Some of the variables have defaults
or you don't have to touch, some of them you can override
and then you can influence behavior
of this application by overriding values.
Think, for example, about the root password for MySQL
or the login or the underlying storage.
You can all override these values
to influence the configuration.
Let's go over some common commands
and then I will show you a demo.
Helm init and helm reset.
Helm init installs Tiller on the cluster
and helm reset removes Tiller from the cluster.
Helm install installs a Helm chart
so this is what you're going to use to install something.
Helm search to search for a chart.
Helm list to list the installed charts,
the releases it's called in Helm terminology.
Helm upgrade to upgrade a release.
And helm rollback to rollback the release
to the previous version.
So, with Helm, you can install a package
but then later on you can upgrade it
and if the upgrade doesn't work, you can roll it back.